Good morning guys! Thank you for showing up today. As a recent graduate, I understand that it is not an easy feat to wake up early on a Saturday; at least it is not for me... A quick introduction. My name is Linh; graduated in December 2014; major in Computer Information System. I currently work as Identity and Access Management Developer here at JMU. My main duty is to develop and to maintain technology solution to account and password related problems such as mymadison access or the infamous one-time-passcode or OTP. I am sorry for the inconvenience of the OTP but please bare with us, we are actively working on improving the situation :)

So what I am tasked to talk today is this question: "What does it mean to be a Business Professional?". Does anyone want to take a guess? What are some of the characteristics or traits do you use to associate with a professional? (skilled, knowledgable, dependable, maybe?) For me, I chose the word "trust".

In my three years of working in the information security business, I think the word "trust" is a great indicator of success. In the early day working for JMU, I was tasked with simple and non-critical task like research a new feature of a production, reformat documentation, refactor code, etc... Nowadays, I am involved in the development of a new product and get to work with important data in production environment, things that can directly effect a student or a professor access to Canvas and Mymadison. It is scary seeing my responsibility getting larger by days but at the same time very rewarding. Looking back at the last two years, I think I get to where I am today by carefully building trust with my coworkers, my boss, and my customers. Whenever I am given a task, big or small, I try to ask as many questions as possible to clarify the goal of the task or how it should be done. I take time to create good documentation so that the person who come after me one day can understand the problem and solution that I come up with and he/she will be able to improve it. By doing so, I give my boss and my coworkers confident that my works align with their expectation and they can follow what I did easily. If I accept an invitation to a meeting or an appoinment, I will put a reminder in my phone so that I can be on time and be prepared to talk in those meetings; this way, the people that I have professional relationships with can always count on me to be there to help when they need me. Advices such as "paying attention to details" or "be prompt and punctual" are overused and sometime can sound like a cliche but it really works in building trust, and eventually success, from my experience.

In my opinion, as you are in your sophomore year, it will be benefial for you to create habits out of small little things that help you to build trust. Those things can be simple as: visiting professors during office hours to ask if you have the right approach to your assignments; sending follow up emails after meetings with your teammates; reading the material before a working session with your team; respecting other people time by being punctual; etc... Whatever you do when interacting with other people, try to think how it can re-enforce the trust that person have on you; if it is positive, keep doing it until it becomes your habits; it is negative, take note, and try to avoid it the next time.

To sum up, from my personal experience, to be a business professional means to build trust with the people you are working with. To do that, you need to have good technical knowledge and good interpersonal skills. The knowledge can come from books, peers, classes; but it is up to you to develop your interpersonal skills by practicing everydays. That is it; I hope this was a helpful advice!
